>> Sarah Drasner: There's clipping and
masking in images, but
you can also clip and mask with GIFs.
And you can use SVG to do that as well.
So this is like clipping and masking
within an SVG, I just masked this, and
then you can reveal a pattern and
things like that.
>> Sarah Drasner: This is that scale and
cropping, clipping and
masking thing that I
showed you from earlier.
Again, really, really useful resource,
so check that out.
I also wrote an article called
Clipping Versus Masking,
When to Use Each because I could
never remember until I wrote down.
Sometimes I write articles just so
that I can commit it to memory.
[LAUGH] Or that I know that CSS tricks
has good SEO so I can it later.
Basically the difference being,
clipping is when you're
taking the geometry of a shape and
using that to cut out another image.
Masking is when you're
respecting the gradients
that you're seeing in those things.
So that one where you saw
the gif going around and
stuff that had some gradients and
stuff inside of it.
I'm using that to mask a pattern in SVG.
So, actually, let's go to the,
>> Sarah Drasner: Clipping and masking.
>> Sarah Drasner: So this first CodePen
kinda shows that if this is the original
shade It's got a star, but I also have
a stroke with some dashes and stuff.
If I'm using a clip path, it's really
just taking the geometry of the star.
Whereas if I'm taking a mask,
it's going to cut out,
it's gonna see the tone,
basically the tone between the.
That green is darker, so
it's cutting it out and making it lighter.
And then the dashes kinda
come through as well.
So that's a nice way of
kind of looking at it.
Noel Delgado did this cool pen where he
was layering two images on top of each
other and using a clip path.
To kind of explore those two images,
which is I think a really,
really popular code pen,
because it's super awesome.
So there's different ways of using images,
the image tag, the background source.
For SVG if you haven't worked with it
before, you can use it inline, and
that's how I would actually
suggest you use it.
Instead of applying it as
a background tab, tag,
or an image source because
when you write it in line,
that's when you can navigate that dom and
apply things.
So that in line is the way that you're
going to be able to access it for
things like animation and stuff like that.
Sprites, you might be
familiar with sprites.
It's when you can have a whole lot
of images and PNGs on one thing.
And then you're exposing one piece of
a background in order to show each piece.
Part of the reason why we do that is
because it's very expensive to make
multiple HTTP requests.
So if you have a lot of images you
wanna put it on this sprite sheet and
there's even things that creates
bright sheets automatically for you.
But when we move in to HDP2,
things like that won't be an issue anymore
because that handles those multiple
request in a much more responsible way.
So if you upgrade your site to using HDP2,
you no longer have to use stuff like
image sprites full page backgrounds.
This is a pretty important one because
there's a lot of times where people
want a full bleed hero image.
Even if you don't want it,
everyone else does.
Or sometimes you want to use it for
some of the geometry of something.
I used it because we created
something with grid and
I wanted it Just sticking
in that one spot, right?
I wanted it to kind of be flexible.
So basically the trick here,
actually some of these prefixes,
we don't need anymore like the O one.
I should go update that article.
So we use background no repeat,
center, center, fixed.
And then we have background size cover,
which basically makes it
take up that whole space.